 
BASIC CHEMICALS, COSMETICS & DYES EXPORT PROMOTION COUNCIL                 
 
Page 21 /64 (HR Manual)                                                                                POWERED BY UNIVERSAL HR  
 
INDUCTION POLICY  TOTAL PAGES  – 2 
Date  of Policy  Document  Proposed:  10/02/2022  Effective  Date  of Policy : 08/01/2024  
Supersedes  Service Rules  Document  Dated:  10/06/1968  Approved By:   Director General , Vice -Chairman , 
Chairman  & CoA  
 
 
6.1 Objective  
 
CHEMEXCIL  realizes  that  in order  to maintain  effective and  
efficient  performance , all employees must be taken through 
a comprehensive induction process.   
 
CHEMEXCIL  commits itself to assist new employees to integrate into the culture of the  
Council  and to acquaint themselves with details and the requirements of the job as quickly 
as possible.  
The induction  process  will take  place  by means  of a formal  induction  checklist  which  will guide  
the HR functionaries  for the purpose  of employee  orientation.  
6.2 Applicability:  Applicable  to all new  Joiners  
6.3 Guidelines  
i. A new employee’s induction in the Council  should not be seen as a routine event or 
as a  mere formality but a significant process by which the new employee gets to 
know the  Council , internalizes  the Council 's social  and behavioral  environment  and 
values,  as well  as the  required  job-related  skills and  competencies.  
ii. No new employee would be engaged on the normal job directly without having been  
exposed  to an Induction  Program.  It is the responsibility  of the Human  Resource  
Department to plan and deliver, in consultation with the Manager, a suitable 
induction  program.  
iii. The duration  and extent  of the induction  to be given  to the new  employee  will be for 
two  days. The induction  period  can be extended  for a longer  period  if the need  arises  
to ensure  that  new  employees are  properly  inducted.  
iv. Wherever  a new staff  joining  the Council , they will be initially  introduced  to other  
Departments  in the same  location,  the HR shall  take  the initiative  to prepare a brief 
induction/ familiarization program for him/her after ascertaining the  availability  of 
all concerned.  Such  induction  may  either  precede  his joining  the Department or may 
be in the course of his working in the Department concerned,  depending  on the 
convenience of  all concerned.  
v. A formal  announcement  by  e -mail will be made  across  the Council  with  a brief  
introduction  of  the new  employee  by the HR department.  
vi. The employee  should be  taken around the  office, shown the  location utilities and  
6. INDUCTION  POLICY  
 