 
BASIC CHEMICALS, COSMETICS & DYES EXPORT PROMOTION COUNCIL                 
 
Page 31 /64 (HR Manual)                                                                                POWERED BY UNIVERSAL HR  
 
PERFORMANCE  MANAGEMENT  POLICY  TOTAL PAGES  : 8 
Date  of Policy  Document  Proposed:  10/02/2022  Effective  Date  of Policy : 08/01/2024  
Supersedes  Service Rules  Document  Dated:  10/06/1968  Approved By:   Director General , Vice -Chairman , 
Chairman  & CoA  
 
 
9.1 Introduction:  
 
The Performance Management System (PMS) is the most important element in driving 
Council  excellence. It is akin to the heart when it comes to human anatomy. Like the heart 
absorbs blood and pumps fresh blood into the body, the PMS  receives crucial data related 
to the performance of the Council  and pumps back important milestones to be achieved 
in the form of KRA’s and training needed to sharpen knowledge, skills and attitude for the 
new targets of the forthcoming financial year. The PMS  continuously monitors 
performance to keep the Council  alert and healthy.   
 
A professional Performance Management System ideally tries to capture the Competence 
of employees and rewards, recognizes  or reprimands them for better performance for 
achieving  next year’s business plan. Here, competence is a combination of Job knowledge, 
skills and attitude of the employee.   
 
The performance of the Council  is look ed at it in a three -dimensional  structure: Individual 
employee performance, his departments contribution to the Council  and finally what the 
Council  has been able to achieve in terms of business performance (revenue and profits).   
 
9.2 Objective : 
 
 
Performance Management System is an integrated 
process of objective  evaluation & institutionalize 
the Performance setting, merit based assessment 
and evaluation that will support individual 
employee, departmental & Council  growth and help 
create a performance driven culture.  
 
 
  
 
9.3 Job Descriptions:  
 
CHEMEXCIL makes  every  effort  to create  and maintain  accurate  job descriptions  for all 
positions  within  the Council .  CHEMEXCIL maintains j o b descriptions  to aid in orienting  
new  member to  their  jobs , identifying the requirements of each position, establishing 
hiring criteria, setting  standards  for employee  performance  evaluations.  
  9. Performance Management System (PMS)  