 
BASIC CHEMICALS, COSMETICS & DYES EXPORT PROMOTION COUNCIL                 
 
Page 57 /64 (HR Manual)                                                                                POWERED BY UNIVERSAL HR  
 
16.5   Policy  on Disciplinary  Procedure  
a. Objective:  The disciplinary  procedure  provides  a framework  for dealing  with  instances  
where  employees  are alleged  not to have  met the  required  standards of  conduct  
16.6   Key Aspects:  
i. This  policy  applies  to all employees  of  CHEMEXCIL  
ii. Acts  of omission:  Acts  of omission  on the part  of an employee  that  shall  
amount  to gross  misconduct  and attract  Disciplinary  Action  are detailed  
below:  
 
a. Insubordination  or disobedience  of any lawful  or reasonable  order  of a 
superior.  
b. Taking  or giving  bribes,  illegal  gratification  or any consideration  in cash  or kind  
for any   favour  or promise  of favour  or for doing  or for not doing  any official  
act. 
c. Absence from duty without permission, absence without leave, act of 
absconding (as  mentioned  under  Leave  Policy),  over  stayed  beyond  
sanctioned  leave,  irregular  attendance  and habitual  late attendance.  
d. Insolence,  impertinence,  rude  or un civil  behavior . 
e. Breach  of any administrative  circulars  or orders,  or any regulation  or 
instruction  or the maintenance of  discipline  in the office.  
f. Negligence  or neglect  of work  or consistently  poor  performance  record.  
g. Drunkenness  while  on duty  or intemperate  habits  affecting  the efficiency  of 
work.  
h. Conviction  of any employee  under  a criminal  offense  involving  moral  
turpitude.  
i. Unauthorized  divulgence  of any official  information  or confidential  or secret  
document.  
j. Commission  of any act subversive  to discipline  or good  behavior . 
k. Failure  to give  full and correct  information  regarding  his correct  history  and 
record  or in connection with any offense committed by himself or any other 
employee within his  knowledge when  demanded.  
l. Failure  to give  full and correct  information  to the Appointing  Authority  or the 
Committee  regarding  any matter  related  and connected  with  the Council . 
m. Non -observance  or non-compliance  of any of the rule  of this HR policy . 
n. Gambling  within  the premises  of the Council . 
o. Theft,  fraud  or dishonesty  in connection  with  a Council  activity  or property  or 
the theft  of property  of another  employee . 
p. Commission  of any act in consistent  with  his status  as an employee  of the 
Council . 
q. Sexual  or any other  type  of harassment  of fellow  employee.  
r. Writing or supporting Pseudonymous  letter s / emails  to all and sundry 
defaming the Council  and its stakeholders including ministry 
representatives, senior employees of the Council , Chairman  and or COA 
members.  
s. Spreading rumors and instigation fellow staff against Council  or seniors.  
t. Conducting and or participating in any meeting without the permission of 
superior authority , on line or off line ,during working hours . 
  