 
BASIC CHEMICALS, COSMETICS & DYES EXPORT PROMOTION COUNCIL                 
 
Page 63 /64 (HR Manual)                                                                                POWERED BY UNIVERSAL HR  
 
c. Traveling/commuting measures:  
i. All work trips and events – both domestic and international – will be 
cancelled/postponed whenever the Council  feels appropriate.   
ii. In-person meetings should be done virtually where possible, especially with non -
company parties (e.g. candidate interviews and partners).  
iii. If you normally commute to the office by public transportation and do not have other 
alternatives, you can request to work from home as a precaution.  
iv. If you are planning to travel voluntarily to a high -risk country with increased COVID -
19 cases, you will be asked to work from home for 14 calendar days. You will also be 
asked not to come into physical contact with any colleagues during this time.  
d. General hygiene rules:  
i. Wash your hands after using the toilet, before eating, and if you cough/sneeze into 
your hands (follow the  20 second hand wash method).  You can also use the sanitizers 
you will find around the office.  
ii. Cough/sneeze into your sleeve, preferably into your elbow. If you use a tissue, discard 
it properly and clean/sanitize your hands immediately.  
iii. Open the windows regularly to ensure open ventilation.  
iv. Avoid touching your face, particularly eyes, nose, and mouth with your hands to 
prevent from getting infected.  
v. If you find yourself coughing/sneezing on a regular basis, avoid close physical contact 
with your coworkers and take extra precautionary measures (such as requesting sick 
leave).  
vi. In case any employee is granted Work from Home after proper justification, during 
such period of Work from Home, conveyance/ travelling allowance will not be paid for 
those many days.   
vii. Internet allowance : Employees granted Work f rom home will be eligible for 
Maximum  amount of Rs. 500/ - per month  towards Internet allowance against Bill  
subject to approval from HoD.  
viii. Any other Allowance which may be required to be considered during lockdown or 
work from home.   
  