 
BASIC CHEMICALS, COSMETICS & DYES EXPORT PROMOTION COUNCIL                 
 
Page 48 /64 (HR Manual)                                                                                POWERED BY UNIVERSAL HR  
 
iii. Loss of Mobile Phone : Instances,  where  the employee  loses  the mobile  phone,  
the following  penalty  will be applicable:  
➢ First instance –Recover of depreciated cost (as per book of accounts) and in 
case, the  depreciated value of the handset is 0 (NIL), then minimum Rs.500/ - 
will be recovered as  penalty.  
➢ Second  instance  – Recover  of purchase  value  of similar  functionality  handset.  
➢ Third  instance  – Recover  of purchase  value  of similar  functionality  handset  with  
addition  to Rs. 1000/ - as penalty.  
 
iv. Incurring costs on personal mobile: Employees who are using personal mobile 
phone for official business, CHEMEXCIL  to re -imbrues  such call charges to the 
concerned employee.  
v. Authorized Usage  
 
1 In the event  of the phone  being  lost or stolen  the employee  must  contact  the Admin  
Department  for cancellation  / deactivation  of the services  complaint  lodge  a report  in the 
concerned  Police  Station.  
2 Phones  must  not be used  for any commercial  or business  purpose  other  than  of the   
CHEMEXCIL . 
3 Phones  must  not be used  for unlawful  purpose.  
4 Hand  held  phone  must  not be used  while  driving.  
5 Phones  must  not be used  for taking  photographs  or recording  other  than  the Council ’ s events.  
6 Use of data  services  must  be compliant  with  CHEMEXCIL  and associated  policies.  
7 No spam  calls,  no download  of unauthorized  software,  no restricted  or material , like 
sports, online games, porn etc.  for apps  download  is allowed. Strict disciplinary action will 
be taken if such unauthorized downloads are found on the mobile.  
 
 
vi. Revoking  of phone  or termination  of employment : In cases  where  employment  ceases  
or is terminated  CHEMEXCIL  owned  mobile  phone  and accessories  must  be returned  to 
the Admin  department.  
 
In case departing employee wants to transfer the same number, such requests must be  
made through  the HOD  
 
vii. General  Guidelines  
 
➢ Employees  are expected  to use their  mobile  handset  for all official/  personal  calls.  
➢ The policy  provides  for reasonable  amount  of personal  calls.  In case,  an employee  exceeds  
his monthly  limits  on account  of personal  calls,  he will require  necessary  waiver  signed  
from  the respective  HOD  and submit  to Finance.  Otherwise  the excess  bill amount  will get 
deducted  from  the respective  employee’s  salary.  
➢ The employee  is eligible  for a new  mobile  after  4 years  
  