 
BASIC CHEMICALS, COSMETICS & DYES EXPORT PROMOTION COUNCIL                 
 
Page 39 /64 (HR Manual)                                                                                POWERED BY UNIVERSAL HR  
 
 
LEARNING & DEVELOPMENT  POLICY  TOTAL PAGES: 3  
Date  of Policy  Document  Proposed:  10/02/2022  Effective  Date  of Policy : 08/01/2024  
Supersedes  Service Rules  Document  Dated:  10/06/1968  Approved By:   Director General , Vice -Chairman , 
Chairman  & CoA  
 
10.1 Objective :  
CHEMEXCIL  encourages employee development & intends  to provide  periodical 
training for development of the employees, which will enhance  their specific job skills 
and their overall professional strengths, as well as  their  personal  development.  
10.2 Principles:   
All training, learning and development should lead to  improvements  in employees and 
their  performance.  
 
a. Learning  is everyone’s  responsibility  and implicit  in this commitment  is the 
expectation  that  all employees are required to support and promote employee 
growth in line with business  requirements.  
b. The support and active participation of senior managers is seen as essential in both 
planning  and managing  L&D,  and as leaders  of a culture  of learning and  continuous  
improvement.  
c. The role  of HR is one of facilitating  change,  managing  L&D  activity,  and building  and 
supporting  the overall learning  culture  rather  than  one of simply  coordinating  
training.  
d. Learning  is seen  as an important  part  of the Council ’s value  system.  
 
10.3 Budget : 
 
a. Training  Budget  is a centralized  budget  which will  be initiated  by HR, approved  by 
ED. 
 
b. Area  of focus:  The focus  will be mainly  on three  aspects:  
i. To equip employees to perform their daily tasks and jobs effectively by ensuring 
adequate  training  in their  functional  areas.  This  will ensure  that  employees  are 
exposed  to and up  dated  with  the latest  trends,  technology  in their  functional  
domain.  
 
ii. To equip  employees  to be personally  effective  at their  job and grow  as an 
individual,  learning  plan  will also  focus  on trainings  related  to behaviors,  
attitudes,  etc. 
 
iii. For the Council  to transform  and achieve  its vision,  learning  initiatives  will also  be 
derived  from  the Council ’s direction  and strategy.  
 
This  will form  the basis  for all learning  related  initiatives  at CHEMEXCIL  
  10. LEARNING  & DEVELOPMENT  POLICY  