 
BASIC CHEMICALS, COSMETICS & DYES EXPORT PROMOTION COUNCIL                 
 
Page 55 /64 (HR Manual)                                                                                POWERED BY UNIVERSAL HR  
will take into consideration good performance, good conduct, aptitude  and competence (job 
knowledge, skills and attitude) required to be eligible for elevation / promotion.   
 
The three way career progression will be as:   
 
i. Vertical career growth   
ii. Horizontal career growth   
iii. Lateral career growth   
 
i. Vertical Career growth:  Vertical means when an employee is promoted to the next level in 
hierarchy of his / her function/ department. This is also referred as ‘Career Enrichment’. The other 
approach to vertical career growth is by way of Up -gradation to the upper grade.   
 
ii. Horizontal Career growth:  Horizontal means when an employee is provided an additional 
department to manage along with his / her existing department as a Promotion. This is also referred 
as ‘Career Enlargement’.   
 
iii. Lateral Career growth:  Lateral career growth means when an employee is Promoted for excellent 
performance in his existing department and post promotion is given the responsibility of another 
department / function to strengthen the other department. This is also referred as ‘Care er 
Enhancement’ and is a typical way of transferring appropriate talent to address a critical gap in the 
Council ’s efficient functioning. Employees who are considered for Lateral Career growth are 
popularly known as “Commandos”. Such employees are further considered to be on fast track 
career growth and preferred for Strategic positions like HOD or Director General of the Council .  
 
The Council  makes it clear that promotion is not a right but a privilege and the same is not time bound. 
The pre requisites for career growth is as follows:  
 
a) Minimum qualification: Graduation in any field (Science graduates are preferred however, if not 
available then Arts & Commerce can be considered).   
 
For senior positions, (Manager upto Director  General ), the minimum qualification will be post 
graduation in any discipline.   
b) Consistent rating of minimum 4 (outstanding performance) in the previous three appraisal cycle.   
c) The career progression will be a dependent on the annual performance appraisal process outcomes.   
d) Employees are encouraged to update their knowledge and skills through and training programs 
sponsored by the Council .  
e) The Council  will always prefer to consider internal talent for new and existing vacancies arising in the 
Council  from time to time, however in situations where the internal talent is not found to be appropriate 
in terms of competence, the Council  will be forced to acquire talent from outside the Council .  
f) In case of a situation where there are multiple aspirants for a particular position, the Council  will set 
up an ‘Assessment Centre‘ to assess the right candidate by employing various tools to decide on 
Promotions or Up -gradations.   
g) Promotions and Up -gradations will be processed by the HR department, recommended with 
justification by the Director   General and finally approved by the Chairman  & Vice Chairman  of the 
Council .  
  