 
BASIC CHEMICALS, COSMETICS & DYES EXPORT PROMOTION COUNCIL                 
 
Page 58 /64 (HR Manual)                                                                                POWERED BY UNIVERSAL HR  
16.7  Process  & Ground  Rules:  
a. Informal  Stage:  
i. Managers  bring  to the attention  of the employees  the standards  required  and any failure  to 
meet  those  standards.  
ii. Minor misconduct, (e.g. recurrent lateness) should be dealt with by Reporting manager/  
Head  of Department informally  and without  delay . 
iii. It is advisable  to confirm  the outcomes  of any discussions  in writing  to the employee  
iv. However,  where  an issue  has been  discussed  with  an employee  informally  and if: 
• the issue  has not been  resolved  and the problem  persists  OR 
• the required  improvements  in conduct  are not achieved  OR 
• Further  information  becomes  available  during  discussions  which  make  the matter  
sufficiently  serious  the formal  disciplinary  action  procedure  should  be invoked  
with  penalties  as deemed fit . 
 
b. Formal  Stage:  
i. In case  of any grave misconduct  or any misconduct not  resolved  at the informal  stage,  the 
Director General /any  other  authority  directed  by the Committee  of Administration  (COA)  
shall deliver a Charge -Sheet setting out the alleged misconduct within seven days  of the  
incident  taking  place.  
ii. Thereafter an inquiry shall be conducted by an appointed Enquiry Committee or HR expert . 
iii. On conclusion  of the enquiry,  the enquiry  officer  will submit  his/her  findings  describing  and 
highlighting all the facts recorded during the enquiry, mentioning the charges proved,  
partially  proved or not  proved.  
iv. HR Department  will function  as nodal  agency  and facilitate  in the disciplinary  procedure.  
v. After  taking  into  consideration  all facts,  Enquiry Officer will submit the Enquiry report to 
the Management.  
vi. The decision of the appropriate authority as ratified by the Committee of Administration  
(COA) /Director General shall be final and binding and shall be communicated to the  
employee  formally  before  the action  is carried  out. 
vii. The order  passed  shall  be final  and there  shall  not be any  appeal  against  the order  ratified  
by the COA  except as available in view of legal remedy . 
viii. In the event  the above  process  stages  are not followed  as mentioned  here,  then  concerned  
employee may  attract  disciplinary  action.  
c. Penalties : In the case  of proved  misconduct,  the employee  concerned  shall  be liable  to any one of the 
following  penalties:  
i. Suspension  (as provided by  applicable laws. ) 
ii. Levy  of fines  
iii. Stoppage  or postponement  of increment  
iv. Demotion to  a lower  post or  grade  
v. Reprimand  
vi. Termination, Discharge,  removal or  dismissal  from service.  
Note: An employee can also be kept under suspension pending inquiry  and final action thereof  into the 
alleged  misconduct.  However  he shall  be eligible  for payment  of subsistence  allowance  as per law. 
There  shall  not be two forms  of punishment  for any misconduct.  
Exceptions  – Director General  is authorized  to approve any  exceptions.  