 
BASIC CHEMICALS, COSMETICS & DYES EXPORT PROMOTION COUNCIL                 
 
Page 60 /64 (HR Manual)                                                                                POWERED BY UNIVERSAL HR  
SEPARATION  POLICY  TOTAL PAGES : 2 
Date  of Policy  Document  Proposed:  10/02/2022  Effective  Date  of Policy : 08/01/2024  
Supersedes  Service Rules  Document  Dated:  10/06/1968  Approved By:   Director General , Vice -Chairman , 
Chairman  & CoA  
 
 
18.1 Objective : To facilitate smooth transition of employee keeping in mind the interests of the Council  
and the   separating  employee.  
18.2 Guidelines : Separation  may  be on any of the following  grounds.  
a. Voluntary  - where  the Employee  resigns  from  the services  of the Council  or is 
terminated from services of the Council  for whatever reason thereby  relinquishing one’s 
employment with the Council . 
b. Involuntary  - where  the separation  is initiated  by the Council  for any of the 
following  reasons  but not limited  to: 
i. On the grounds  of nonperformance  
ii. On the  grounds  of financial  impropriety  
iii. On the grounds  of immodest  and unacceptable  personal  behavior  with  the 
colleagues,  
iv. On grounds  of harassment  or intimidation  of subordinates.  
v. On grounds of colluding with vendors, suppliers and agents of the Council  for 
personal  benefit.  
vi. On grounds  of working  against  the interest  of the Council . 
vii. On grounds  of working  against  the interest  of the nation.  
viii. On grounds of misconduct  
 
18.3   Retirement  from  Services : 
 
a. Voluntary Abandonment of Services   Voluntary   Separation - 
 
i. The employee who wants to quit the services voluntarily is required to submit 
his/her  letter  of resignation  to the HOD,  Director   General . 
ii. All the concerned must ensure that, they have discussed and understood the 
reason of  resignation  and accept  the resignation  on behalf  of the Council . 
iii. The HOD  needs  to communicate  acceptance  of the resignation  in writing  to the 
concerned  employee, clearly indicating the reason, notice period to be served 
and, the date on  which  the employee  is to be relieved  at the end of working  hours.  
iv. A copy  of the Resignation  Acceptance  letter  is to be forwarded  to the HR and the 
Director   General . 
 
 
b. Involuntary  Separation :  
i. In case  of an employee’s  services  being  terminated,  the employee  is served  a 
termination  notice duly signed by the Director  General  under the guidance of 
the Chairman , giving  details  of the termination,  the reasons  for termination,  the 
notice  period  to be served  and the relieving  date  on which  the employee  is to be 
relieved  at the end of working  hours.  
ii. The employee  can approach  the HR if s/he  needs  any clarification  or seeks  any 
information  regarding  the termination.  
  18. SEPARATION  POLICY  