 
BASIC CHEMICALS, COSMETICS & DYES EXPORT PROMOTION COUNCIL                 
 
Page 52 /64 (HR Manual)                                                                                POWERED BY UNIVERSAL HR  
LOCAL CONVEYANCE POLICY  TOTAL PAGES  : 2 
Date  of Policy  Document  Proposed:  10/02/2022  Effective  Date  of Policy : 08/01/2024  
Supersedes  Service Rules  Document  Dated:  10/06/1968  Approved By:   Director General , Vice -Chairman , 
Chairman  & CoA  
 
14.1 Objective :  
d. To lay down  guidelines  for all employees  in CHEMEXCIL  so as to claim  expenses  
incurred  on local  travel  undertaken  on account  of official  outdoor  duties.  
e. This  policy  envisages  that  employees  required  to incur  such  expenses  will apply  
reasonable  discretion,  keeping  the guidelines  of this policy  in mind  at all the times.  
14.2 Applicability : All employees  
14.3 Entitlement  
a. Use  of personal  vehicle  for Council ’s work :  
In case  of the use of personal  vehicle  for the Council ’s purpose  (with  prior  approval  from  
reporting  superior ) expenses  incurred  shall  be reimbursed  as follows:  
 
Sr. 
No. Vehicle  / Two  Wheeler  Rate  of claim  
1 Use of personal  / office  four  wheelers  for official  visits  only  for M1  
to M3  Rs.8  per km 
2 Use of personal  / office  two wheelers  for official  visits  within  city 
other  Grades  Rs. 4  per km  
 
i. The employees  may  use their  personal  vehicles  on prior  approval  from  the HOD/  
Director   General . 
ii. This  rate  includes  the fuel expenses  and maintenance  charges.  
iii. Parking  charges  shall  be reimbursed  against  presentation  of parking  tickets  only.  
iv. All cases,  where  a car has to be hired,  it needs  to be booked  through  the 
travel/administration  department,  who  will make  the required  arrangements  it 
needs  to be pre-approved  by Director General / HOD.  
v. Where  travel  is not by personal  vehicle,  employees  should  use the most  economical  
means  of public  transport.  
vi. Where  travel  is by auto  rickshaw,  taxi or public  transport,  one may  go to a maximum  
limit  of 60 kms (one  way).  
vii. Under  this policy,  no claim  should  be made  for travel  from  home  to office  or back.  
This  also  applies  to employees  claiming  fuel benefit  for Council  owned  vehicles.  
viii. If there are any other genuine/ bonafide expenses incurred by the employee, such 
claims  may  be authorized  by the Functional  Head  on a suitable  written  explanation  
being  given  by the employee, for the  same.  
ix. If an employee  (including  all grades)  travelling  outstation  during  weekdays  for any 
business  purpose  has to report  to office  for half day or else  min.  4 hrs in a day.  
 14. LOCAL  CONVEYANCE  POLICY  