 
BASIC CHEMICALS, COSMETICS & DYES EXPORT PROMOTION COUNCIL                 
 
Page 47 /64 (HR Manual)                                                                                POWERED BY UNIVERSAL HR  
 
12.2 Mobile  Phone  Policy  
a. Eligibility:  Employees  who  are required  to be largely  mobile  (out of office duty) for the 
performance  of their job  and   also need to remain accessible, and / or are required to 
operate from multiple locations will be  eligible  for this facility.  The final  approval  of the 
Director   General  is required.  
b. Mobile  Phone  Reimbursement  
i. Entitlement: Employees in the following grades, who have frequent official use 
of a Mobile  phone,  and has been  specifically  approved  by Director   General , will 
be entitled  to the following  reimbursement. The reimbursement entitlement limit 
is inclusive of all the facilities (e.g.:  STD/ISD/Roaming,  internet facility,  ring tone  
download  etc.)  
The mobile  phone  bill reimbursement  entitlement  is as below:  
 
Sr. No. New  Grade  Monthly Entitlement  Including  rental  (in Rs.) 
1 M1 TO M 5 Rs. 2000/- 
2 M6 TO M 10 Rs.1000/ - 
3 M11 TO M 13 Rs. 800/ - 
 
Note: E1 -E2 staff will be reimbursed Rs. 300./ - for the calls.  
 
ii. Process  & Ground  Rules:  
➢ Head  of department  to send  the handset  requisition  to administration  
department  
➢ All mobiles  issued  will be standard  equipment’s  and as per limit  fixed  by 
CHEMEXCIL  
➢ Eligible  employee  may  transfer  their  existing number  to CHEMEXCIL  plan  on 
request. Costs  or expenses  if any associated  with  their  transfer  will not be borne  
by the Council . 
➢ CHEMEXCIL  has a standard  plan  any other  charges  such  as Roaming,  International  
calls  should  be avoided  and it is user’s  personal  responsibility.  
➢ CHEMEXCIL  has the right  to dial to any doubtful  number  from  the bill of user  
for verification;  there  is no legal  liability  on violation  of privacy  by 
CHEMEXCIL . 
➢ While  regular  bills  will not be issued  to the employees,  activities  will be 
monitored,  Employee  is expected  to reimburse  the charges  to CHEMEXCIL  
➢ For Replacing  existing  handset  or number  HOD  approval  should  be submitted  
to HR. 
➢ On resignation or retirement  the employee will return the mobile phone 
including the sim card to C HEMEXCIL mandatorily.  
  