 
BASIC CHEMICALS, COSMETICS & DYES EXPORT PROMOTION COUNCIL                 
 
Page 37 /64 (HR Manual)                                                                                POWERED BY UNIVERSAL HR  
 
12. Set appropriate KRA’s for the entire staff.   
 
13. Conduct monthly review meetings to steer the team towards achieving business objectives.   
 
14. Counsel and motivate employees who are not upto the mark.   
 
15. Conduct ‘Town hall meeting’ to address and communicate the situation of the Council  in terms 
of business performance, challenges and advantages. This is a monthly platform to communicate 
Council s plans to employees and also for employees to recommend/ suggest how to improve 
performance, systems for profitable outcomes.  (Addressed By ether Chairman , Vice Chairman , COA 
members or DG. Facilitated by HR )  
 
16. Performance awards and long service (loyalty) awards for eligible employees.   
 
17. Compact and value -added  MIS to Chairman  on monthly basis on the Council  productivity and 
critical performance metrics.   
 
18. Half yearly and annual top management performance review (strategic offsite meet two days) - 
facilitated by Universal   
 
19. Monthly address by eminent business personalities to top management team to benchmark best 
business practices from diverse sectors. - facilitated by Universal   
  
Phase 2:  
 
1. On the basis of the information gathered from the above stakeholders, devise a customized  
PMS .  
2. Design a new performance Appraisal form which will have the following sections:   
a. KRA’s of the previous financial year.   
b. Enabling factors contributing to the achievement of the KRA’s.   
c. Training need analysis   
d. Employees comments (inputs) to arrive at the Employee engagement plan for the 
Council .  
e. Supervisors’  comments   
f. HOD / ED comments.   
3. Presentation to HOD’s explaining them the design and what, how and why of the 
revised appraisal form. How to execute the appraisal process and rate performance.   
4. Distribution of appraisal form to all eligible employees online. Explain to staff how to 
complete the entire document including the self-appraisal  section.   
5. Assist/facilitate supervisors to conduct one on one meetings with their departmental 
staff to discuss past year performance and set KRA’s for  next year.   
6. Collect everybody’s completed appraisal document and do quality check.  
7. If all well, then check department wise and Council  ‘Bell  Curve’. Make corrections if 
required based o n curve results.  