 
BASIC CHEMICALS, COSMETICS & DYES EXPORT PROMOTION COUNCIL                 
 
Page 54 /64 (HR Manual)                                                                                POWERED BY UNIVERSAL HR  
 
EMPLOYEE WELFARE POLICY  TOTAL PAGES : 1 
Date  of Policy  Document  Proposed:  10/02/2022  Effective  Date  of Policy : 08/01/2024  
Supersedes  Service Rules  Document  Dated:  10/06/1968  Approved By:   Director General , Vice -Chairman , 
Chairman  & CoA  
 
 
 
15.1 Objective : Employees need to be engaged while at work breaking the monotony of regular work. 
These activities  are to be conducted to improve overall harmony amongst employees as well as 
improve productivity and positivity in the Council .   
   
15.2 Birthday  Celebration:  On every  4th Friday  of the month,  CHEMEXCIL  will 
celebrate  all employee’s  birthday  falling  in that  respective  month.  
 
15.3 CHEMEXCIL Day : Get-togethe r of the employees  
 
15.4 Annual  Picnic:  Once  in a year  the employees  have  to be taken  out for an  
annual  picnic.  
 
15.5 Open  Sessions : Town  Hall  Meetings  / Suggestion  Scheme  
On a predefined  date  periodically,  Town  Hall  Meetings  will be held  at each  location.  The Director   
General  will chair  the session  at Head  office  and the Regional  Director  / Regional  HOD  will chair  
the session  at Regional  Offices.  
Objective   
The session’s objective is to enable each employee to seek any clarification or information and  
provide  any suggestion  or discuss  any matter  felt important  related  to business,  work  
environment  at the Council . 
It also  serves  as a platform  to enable  the management  to communicate  various  aspects  of the 
business  plans &  policies  to the  employees.  
The session  will be minuted  and the minutes  sent  to the Director General . 
Suggestion  Scheme  
A ‘Suggestion  Box’  will be kept  in a conspicuous  place  in each  of the CHEMEXCIL  offices,  wherein  
the employees  will drop  their  suggestions.  These  suggestions  will be reviewed  by the HR 
Department  periodically.  
 
15.6 Policy for systematic Career Progression of employees:   
 
Applicable to all confirmed employees of the Council .  
 
The philosophy of Chemexcil is to ensure growth of employees with growth of the Council . Towards 
this, as a part of the Performance Management System, the Council  has in place a detailed career path 
for every position on the organisation structure and thus has adopted a three way career progression 
ensuring multiple growth opportunities to all deserving employees during their tenure with the 
Council . It should be noted that the career progression of employees is based on merit and the Council  15. EMPLOYEE  WELFARE  POLICY  
 