 
BASIC CHEMICALS, COSMETICS & DYES EXPORT PROMOTION COUNCIL                 
 
Page 26 /64 (HR Manual)                                                                                POWERED BY UNIVERSAL HR  
 
i. As a general rule, leave must be with prior intimation and with the approval of the HOD  
concerned. Else the same would be classified as unauthorized leave and the pay may be  
deducted  accordingly.  
 
j. In case of Sick Leave , if the Council  feels the necessity of ratifying the medical prescription 
and the fitness certificate by the Council ’s appointed Doctor w will be considered as final 
approval.   
k. Leave  records  of all employees  will be maintained  by Payroll/  HR Department.  
 
l. It is necessary  that  duly  filled  and approved  leave  application  must  reach  HR by 25th  of every  
month without fail. If, any employee fails to apply for leave or to regularize the absence  
before  the cut-off date,  HR will not send  any intimation nor  would follow -up for  the same.  The 
duration of such absence will be treated as unauthorized and no salary will be paid for the  
period.  
 
m. No leave  can be availed  of during  the notice  period.  No employee  can be on leave  on his/her                   
last working day  in the Council . If any employee on serving notice period happens to avail 
leave  due to health issues or any emergency situation, the notice period will be extended by 
the number of days the employee was absent.  
 
n. Leave  Application  for Regional  Heads  should  be routed  to Director   General  
 
8.3 Privilege Leave (PL):   
 
a. Eligibility:   
All confirmed employees  of the CHEMEXCIL  are eligible for paid  leave. Employees on  probation  
are not entitled  to take  leave,  except  on any exigencies . 
 
However,  on confirmation they can avail, of the leave accumulated during the period of  
probation as  per the  norms.  
 
b. Entitlement:  
 
For the f irst year the PL will be on pro -rated basis.  
 
Every employee of CHEMEXCIL  is entitled to avail 30 days  PL in a year . However , the leave can 
only be availed after completion of six  months  of service  with  full pay in case of new joiners . 
 
The leaves  will be credited  to the employee’s  leave  account  at the beginning  of calendar  year  
(i.e. 1st January  every  year)  
 
When an employee avails PL, s/he will be paid the same salary as was paid before proceeding  
on leave . 
 
At a stretch on one go; an employee cannot avail more than 15 days of PL, unless approved by 
the Director General  with  justification. To  avail the  PL, the employee  needs  to submit  a PL 
application form  to the sanctioning  authority at least 15 days in advance. The period can be 
reduced in case of contingency or  emergency  by the sanctioning  authority on  a case -to-case  
basis.  
  