 
BASIC CHEMICALS, COSMETICS & DYES EXPORT PROMOTION COUNCIL                 
 
Page 29 /64 (HR Manual)                                                                                POWERED BY UNIVERSAL HR  
 
8.6 Extraordinary  Leave  without  Pay  (LWP)  
 
The Director   General may  grant  extraordinary  leave  to an employee  under  special  circumstances  
with/  without  pay if no other  leave  is in credit  of the employee.  
 
Cancellation  of Leave  
The Director  General  can also  cancel  the once  sanctioned  leave  on situational  / need  basis.  If an 
employee  proceeds  to avail  the cancelled  leave,  then  those  days  will be treated  as absence  from  duty  
and the rules  pertaining  to LWP  will be applicable.  
8.7 Special  /Compensatory  Leave ( Comp -Off)  
 
a. Entitlement: Comp -off/ Special leave will be entitled only after 6 hours of work in a day for  
working  on holidays  (for those  not entitled  to overtime).  Such  special  leave  standing  in credit  of  an 
employee  on 31st December  shall  be consumed  by the following  calendar  year  and no further  carry  
forward shall  be allowed.  
 
In case  an employee  is required  to report  to work  on any Sundays/Saturdays/Declared  Holidays,  
the employee  is entitled  to a compensatory  holiday  (“comp -off”)  of one day in lieu of every holiday 
worked. The employee working on a holiday should report for work on the  holiday  on receiving  
written  permission/instruction  from  the Director   General . 
 
The request  for compensatory  holiday  needs  to be made  using  the “Leave  application  form”  and 
presented  to the reporting  superior.  The reporting  superior  on approval  to submit  the form  to      
the HR  Manager  for record.  
 
Leaving  for official  travel  or coming  back  from  official  trip on weekly  off /Saturdays  / declared   
holidays  before  12 noon,  the employee  is not eligible  for claiming  comp  off for the same.  
 
b. Overtime:  
 
i. Eligibility:  
Only Office Assistant staff ( Driver & Peon) will be  eligible for overtime benefits. The 
Overtime eligibility will start only after working hours  exceeding  9 hrs. as per the  law.  
 
8.8 Other  Leaves:  
 
a. Maternity  Leave : All female employees of the Council  can avail Maternity Leave as per 
Maternity Benefit Act 196 1. 
 
b. Paternity  Leave:  All male employees of the Council  can avail Paternity Leave as per 
Paternity  Benefit Act 2017 . 
 
  