 
BASIC CHEMICALS, COSMETICS & DYES EXPORT PROMOTION COUNCIL                 
 
Page 10 /64 (HR Manual)                                                                                POWERED BY UNIVERSAL HR  
3.6 The  procedure  for the permissions  is as follows : 
 
The employee needs to write an application for late coming / early leaving and get the approval of  
reporting superior. The approved application is to be submitted to the HR Department and an  
acknowledgement  received.  
In case of regions, the Regional Director to approve late coming / early going or leave. A duplicate  
copy  of the form  (application)  is to be retained  by the employee  for further  reference.  In case  of any 
discrepancy,  the same  to be brought  to the notice  of Director  General . Employees  are expected  to be 
regular  & punctual  at work.  
An employee in case of emergency will be allowed to come late the office for leave early twice in a 
month with approval from HoD and intimation to HR Department.  
 
3.7 Late  Sitting :  
The following  facilities  can be availed  by individual  employees  working  beyond  20:00 hrs.  
working hours . 
 
GRADE  Conveyance  Allowance  after  2000 hrs. (if not using  office  vehicle)  
M1-M5 Cab/Taxi Fare as Actual on submission of the Bill  
M6-M13  Cab/Taxi Fare as Actual on submission of the Bill with approval from the HOD 
(possibly on sharing basis with other employees)  
E1-E3 Cab/Taxi Fare as Actual upto Rs. 800/ - with approval from the HOD (possibly on 
sharing basis with other employees)  
 
Late sitting is allowed only with the prior permission from superiors depending on exigencies of 
work and is at sole discretion of the Management  
 
 
3.8 Procedure :  
Employees must fill in the Expense claim form / voucher, get it signed by the reporting superior  
and submit the approved Claim Forms along with the supporting bills/receipts to the accounts  
department.  However,  the claims  will be reimbursed  once  in a week.  
 
3.9 Working  Hours  Policy:   
The employee  will be required  to adhere  to timings  as may  be notified  from  time  to time.  Heads  of 
Departments  (HODs)  and Regional  Director/  Manager  to schedule employees  to work  in order  
to meet  quality  and operational requirements.  
An employee’s absence from work habitually reporting late to work  and/or  excessive  
absenteeism  will be treated  as indiscipline  and appropriate disciplinary  action  (including  
termination)  can be initiated  against  erring  employees.  An employee’s late -coming/ 
unpunctuality and absenteeism record may be a significant factor in  evaluating  performance, 
promotions,  increments  and transfers.  
If an employee  is absent  continuously for ten working  days  without  informing  the reporting  
HOD , disciplinary action will be initiated against the employee remain ing absent for more than  
ten consecutive days without prior approval of leave . 
  