 
BASIC CHEMICALS, COSMETICS & DYES EXPORT PROMOTION COUNCIL                 
 
Page 46 /64 (HR Manual)                                                                                POWERED BY UNIVERSAL HR  
 
 
 
Objective  
 
i. To improve  accessibility  and effectiveness  of employees  for better  availability  & 
connectivity.  
ii. To provide  guidelines  for uniform  application  of policies  of entitlement,  
reimbursement  and cost  effectiveness.  
iii. To improve  efficiency,  productivity , accuracy  and dependency.  
 
12.1 Laptop  / Data  card  Policy  
 
a. Eligibility:  
i. Laptop shall be provided by the Council  to select ed staff as per the job profile, for 
the discharge of their official  duties,  with  the approval  of the  Director  General . 
ii. Data  Cards  will only  be provided  to the employees  in business -critical  roles,  to 
facilitate  communication  while  on move  with  the prior  approval  of Director  
General . 
 
b. Procedure:  In order to issue a Laptop / Computer, data card, a Purchase Requisition 
shall be raised by  Functional  Head and shall  be submitted  to ED. 
 
c. Replacement : Replacement or up -gradation of the Laptop shall be done on the basis of 
technical assessment by  the IT  Department  not before 3  years  with  the prior  approval  
of Director   General . The employee needs to surrender his/her laptop before replacing 
with new laptop.  
 
d. Theft  / Loss  of Laptop : In the event of theft, the user employee will be required to lodge 
a police complaint (FIR) &  forward  the same  to IT department  through  Functional  Head.  
Employee  shall  be financially  liable  for any loss  or damage  to  the laptop.  
e. Retirement  / Resignation : Upon  retirement  / resignation  employees  are required  to 
return  the laptop  along  with  all accessories in good condition to IT department and in 
case the same is found to be damaged  beyond  the normal  wear  and tear,  the estimated  
cost  of repair  shall  be recoverable by  the Council  from  his full  & final  settlement.  
f. Caution: Employees who are issued Laptop must use the same for authorized purpose 
and are not allowed to watch unauthorized sites like sports, online games, porn sites 
etc. In case any employee is fou nd guilty, strict disciplinary action will be taken against 
such an employee.  
  LAPTOP / DATACARD & MOBILE PHONE  POLICY  TOTAL PAGES  : 4 
Date  of Policy  Document  Proposed:  10/02/2022  Effective  Date  of Policy : 08/01/2024  
Supersedes  Service Rules  Document  Dated:  10/06/1968  Approved By:   Director General , Vice -Chairman , 
Chairman  & CoA  
12. LAPTOP  / DATACARD  & MOBILE  PHONE  POLICY  