 
BASIC CHEMICALS, COSMETICS & DYES EXPORT PROMOTION COUNCIL                 
 
Page 32 /64 (HR Manual)                                                                                POWERED BY UNIVERSAL HR  
The HR Department will prepare job descriptions when new positions are created in 
discussions  with the incumbent and the Reporting Manager. Existing job descriptions 
are also reviewed and  revised in order to ensure that they are up to date. Job 
descriptions may also be rewritten  periodically to reflect any changes in the 
position’s duties and responsibilities. All employees will  be expected  to help  ensure  
that  their  job descriptions  are accurate  and relevant , reflecting  the work  being  done.  
Employee should remember that job descriptions do not necessarily cover every task 
or duty that  might  be assigned,  and that  additional  responsibilities  may  be assigned 
as necessary from time to time.  
 
9.4 Performance  Evaluation  Cycle : 
 
CHEMEXCIL ’s official Performance Management Cycle is divided  
into  half yearly business reviews (HYBR).  
 
9.5 Half  yearly  Performance  Evaluation  Cycle  
 
Interim evaluations shall be conducted half yearly basis during the performance cycle 
for both  probationary  and confirmed  employees  to advise  an employee  of his or her 
progress  toward  meeting  performance  measures  or to identify  performance  problems.  
These  evaluations  are to be noted  in the Half  Yearly  Review  Form  which  should  be 
maintained  in supervisors’  documentation  files  to be used  when  the annual  evaluation  is 
being conducted . 
The employees at Regional  offices are required to attend half yearly review through 
Conference  call.  The details  regarding  conference call  will be sent  by the Head  Office  
regularly.  
 
9.6 Half  Yearly  Review  Documentation   
1. Performance Improvement Plan (PIP) : The performance improvement 
plan shall be developed by the supervisor  and HR  based on the competencies 
that they  would like to improve in the employee. Employees should be given 
written information and copy of the plan.  
2. Extra ordinary Performers during Cycle:  HOD(s) are encouraged to 
recognize incidents  of employee performances that are  truly extra  ordinary. 
A supervisor should document incidents of extraordinary performance. The 
document must be signed by the HOD, given to the employee, and a copy 
retained in the HOD’s confidential file until the annual performance 
evaluation is completed. If the employee receives an overall annual evaluation 
of Extra  ordinary performance or below expectation (unacceptable 
performance),  the form must be attached to the annual evaluation form to 
support the rating. Otherwise, the form is retained in the supervisor’s file.  
  