 
BASIC CHEMICALS, COSMETICS & DYES EXPORT PROMOTION COUNCIL                 
 
Page 36 /64 (HR Manual)                                                                                POWERED BY UNIVERSAL HR  
Detail ed Process  
  
Phase 1:   
 
First and foremost, meeting with the Chairman , Vice Chairman , Select COA members, DG 
and Sr. Employees  of the Council  to understand the legacy and future plans. Vision, 
mission, values and try to understand - according to them, what are the strengths and 
causes of concern (if any) and objectives which can be taken into account while devising 
the PMS .  
Thereafter, meeting with employees at the Head office and the regional  office  (one on one) 
trying to understand what are their thoughts about the existing PMS  and what would they 
like to change to match with their respective department objectives. Also check with them 
what suggestions they have to make  regarding  the new PMS  robust and meaningful.  
 
1. Understand what was the business plan for the previous financial year. It is very important to 
understand what were and what are the business objectives the Council  is trying to achieve. The 
performance review of the past year will capture what was achieved and vice the versa.  
 
2. Understand the Compensation philosophy of the Council  and check whether it is in line with the 
Council ’s vision.  
 
3. Understand the Council  structure and what edits the management has planned to align the 
structure with the new business plan.  
 
4. Study existing PMS  system and check last three years business results vis a vis PMS outcome .  
 
5. Study what were the outcomes of  the previous cycle of PMS  like - salary increment, training need 
analysis, how engaged employees are currently. What methodology was used to ascertain 
performance of employees, what was the formula used, what was the bell curve outcomes 
(department & Council )?  
 
6. Study existing CTC structure and recommend edits.  
 
7. Check employee attrition / retention rates and probe reasons and action taken.  
 
8. Meeting with the HR Department and team to analyze  their interpretations of the PMS  and their 
challenges to achieve the objectives of the Council  in terms of  managing talent.  
 
9. Create and present the Executive Summary based on the information gathered to the top 
management.  
 
10. Conduct Compensation survey of the sector we belong to and check the percentile we are at 
amongst other Council s or gather data about the salary levels position wise .] 
 
11. Conduct ‘Goal setting ’ offsite  workshop for senior and mid management level employees. This 
will cover how goals are set, how to define KRA’s, how to conduct effective review meetings and 
how to supervise getting the job done and how to provide feedback effectively.  Two workshops of 
two days each.  