 
BASIC CHEMICALS, COSMETICS & DYES EXPORT PROMOTION COUNCIL                 
 
Page 33 /64 (HR Manual)                                                                                POWERED BY UNIVERSAL HR  
 
9.7 Annual  Review  
 
a. Self-Appraisal  & Evaluation:  The Self-Appraisal  Form  must  be distributed  by the HR 
Department  as per the specified schedule. Each appraisee must be provided an 
opportunity to provide the  supervisor  with  a self-assessment  of his or her job 
performance.  The appraise shall  be required to complete a self - appraisal form 
evaluating his/her performance against set  standards.  The details  of the form  shall  
be kept  highly  confidential  and  shall  not be discussed  with     anyone except the  
respective  HR Personnel.  
 
b. Rating : The appraise  is then  rated  in the following  categories  as per his/her  Annual  
Performance  Score  
 
Rating  Definition  
1 Unacceptable  Performance  
2  Needs Improvements  
3 Satisfactory  Performance  
4 Good Performance  
5 Excellent Performance  
 
➢ Excellent Performance  (5) - The employee  consistently  and significantly  
exceeds  expectations  of the job in all areas.  
➢ Good Performance  (4)- The employee  exceeds  expectations  in several  areas  
on a regular  basis.  
➢ Satisfactory Performance  (3) - The employee consistently fulfills 
expectations and at times may  exceed  expectations.  
➢ Needs Improvements  (2) - The employee’s performance does not consistently 
meet expectations. A  performance improvement plan  is required.  
➢ Unacceptable Performance (1) - Even with additional coaching and 
supervision, the employee’s performance  does  not meet  expectations.  
Immediate  improvement  is required  – final notice  should  be considered  for 
termination  of employment.  
 
c. Record  keeping : 
 
Annual  Performance  Evaluation  Forms  are official  personnel  documents  and must  be 
maintained  by the HR Department in employees’ official personnel files when 
completed. All performance  review  documents  shall  be treated  as ‘Strictly  
Confidential’  
d. Data  Analysis:  
Training  needs  analysis  should  be done through the appraisal process and in 
discussion with the HOD and HR.  
Employee Engagement Plan for the Council  should be created after the completion 
of the appraisals.  
Individual  Development  Plan  (IDP)  should  be made for  critical  roles and for those 
with rating of   1 & 2.  