 
BASIC CHEMICALS, COSMETICS & DYES EXPORT PROMOTION COUNCIL                 
 
Page 25 /64 (HR Manual)                                                                                POWERED BY UNIVERSAL HR  
LEAVE  POLICY  TOTAL PAGES  – 6 
Date  of Policy  Document  Proposed:  10/02/2022  Effective  Date  of Policy : 08/01/2024  
Supersedes  Service Rules  Document  Dated:  
10/06/1968  Approved By:   Director General , 
Vice -Chairman, Chairman & CoA  
 
8.1 Objective : 
 
All employees of CHEMEXCIL are encouraged to avail the 
paid leave  facility  as and when  needed to  take  time  off for 
rest,  and to attend  personal   exigencies. The purpose of the 
leave policy is to define leave eligibility,  facilitate  planning  
and availing  of leave  in a systematic  manner.   
Leaves  are allotted  without  discriminating  between  Management,  
staff  or any  other  categories.  The Number  of days  of Leave  
eligibility  per year  does  not vary  with  years  of    service.  
 
Employee  Category  Privilege 
Leave (PL)  Casual Leave  
(CL)  Commuted/  
Sick Leave (SL)  National 
Holidays  
All Employees  
(Except temporary)  30 Days  10 Days  15 Days  17 Days  
(in liaison with 
Government 
Holidays)  
 
8.2 General  Guidelines  
a. Leave  year  for accounting  purposes  would  be the Calendar  year  i.e. January  to December.  
 
b. In a calendar yea r an employee is eligible for 30 days Earned Leave / Privilege Leave  
(including  weekly  off and National/Public Holiday ), 15 days  sick  leave  and 10 days  Casual  
Leave  
 
c. In case  of employees  who  have  put in at least  one year  of service 30 days  Earned  will be credited  
to their  account  on 1st January  every  year.  
 
d. Casual  Leave is  credited  at the start  of each  calendar  year  every  year.  
 
e. For employees  who  join in the middle  of the leave  year,  eligibility  would  be calculated  pro-rated  
basis.  
 
f. Prefixing  or suffixing  of leave is  permitted  and intervening  weekly  offs or Public  Holidays               will 
be counted as leave.  
 
g. The responsibility of obtaining sanction for leave will be with the employee . 
 
h. No leave  can be claimed  as a matter  of right.  The employee’s  superior/s  has the discretion  to 
sanction,  defer  or refuse  any leave  depending  upon  exigencies  of work.  
  8.  LEAVE  POLICY  