 
BASIC CHEMICALS, COSMETICS & DYES EXPORT PROMOTION COUNCIL                 
 
Page 43 /64 (HR Manual)                                                                                POWERED BY UNIVERSAL HR  
 
11.5 Salary  Components  
 
This policy outlines the salary elements which go into compensation and benefits packages of  
employees and the eligibility criteria applicable. The Compensation package will be reckoned on  Cost  
to Council  basis  and broadly  consists of  the following:  
a) Basic  
b) House  Rent  Allowance  (HRA)  
c) Transport  Allowance  
d) Special  Allowance   
a. Basic :  
Basic Salary is the money an employee receives from his/her employer by rendering his/her  
services. It is the amount received by the employee in lieu of the work done by him/her for a  
certain period say a day, a week, a month, etc. The basic scale would be as per the terms of  
employment and revisions from time to time and is reckoned for the purpose of PF and ESI C, 
Gratuity.  
 
b. House  Rent  Allowance (HRA)  
HRA is related to attendance and is proportionately reduced for absence without leave. The HRA 
shall be paid to all employees on monthly basis as per the grade.  
 
c. Transport  Allowance  
This allowance is given to the employees to travel within the city for commuting from residence   
to office  to attend his/her normal duty . 
 
d. Leave  Travel  Concession  (LTC)  
All employees of the Council  whose services are confirmed in writing and  who  have completed at 
least one years of uninterrupted service  are eligible  for LTC will  be paid as  one month of Basic  salary 
in a block of  two years.  
The employees  and his/  her family  are entitled  for LTC . 
Employees  may  travel  by any mode  of transport;  however,  reimbursement  will be restricted  to the 
entitlements of their Basic salary. Travel out of India will not be considered for tax  exemption.  
 
e. Gratuit y: All permanent  employees  on the rolls  of CHEMEXCIL  become  members  of Group  
Gratuity  Scheme.  This  is governed  by Payment  of Gratuity  Act, 1972,   
 
Gratuity shall be payable to an employee as per Act.  
 
 
f. Provident  Fund  
 
Eligibility:  All eligible employees  joining  CHEMEXCIL  becomes  member  of                                                 Provident Fund  as stipulated in 
the eligibility criteria in the Act.  This is a contributory fund to provide for monetary benefits for 
employees post  retirement  and governed  by Employee  Provident  Fund  and Miscellaneous  Provisions  
Act, 1952.  
 
The provident Fund shall be payable to an employee as per Act.  
 
  