 
BASIC CHEMICALS, COSMETICS & DYES EXPORT PROMOTION COUNCIL                 
 
Page 28 /64 (HR Manual)                                                                                POWERED BY UNIVERSAL HR  
calculated  as full  day CL. 
v. When leave is taken without prior sanction (under certain unavoidable circumstances), the    
absence should be notified to the respective reporting Manager on the same day through  
phone/sms  or e mail,  however  approval  of the supervisor  is necessary.  
 
c. Procedure:   
 
Employees have to fill Leave Application Form and submit it to the Reporting Manager prior to 
availing CL and get a formal approval of the HoD . CL can neither be en-cashed nor be adjusted 
to the notice period . However, in case of emergency, employee should communicate/inform 
the respective HoD of his/her absence. On resuming duty, the employee has t regularize the CL 
and inform HR accordingly.  
 
8.5 Sick  Leave  (SL):  
a. Eligibility : 
i. All confirmed  employees  are credited  15 days SL as on the 1st January  of every calendar 
year in advance.  
ii. If an employee continues to be absent on grounds of ill health after exhausting the entire  
quota  of SL during  the calendar  year,  such  excess  days  of absence  will be deducted  from  
PL and if PL is not available,  they  will be considered as  unpaid  leave.  
iii. Employees  joining  in the course  of the year  will be eligible  for pro-rata  sick  leave  for the 
service  rendered  in the current  year  subject  to confirmation  of service.  
b. Entitlement:  
 
i. Medical  Certificate  has to be submitted  as a proof  of sickness  if SL is exceeding  more  than  2 
days.  
ii. Intervening  Weekly  off days  / National  / Festival  / Declared  holidays  will be counted  as a 
part  of SL. 
iii. Half  day SL can  be taken  as required.  
iv. SL can neither  be en-cashed nor  be adjusted  to the notice  period.  
 
c. Procedure:  
 
i. Inability  to attend  office  because  of any sickness  should  be notified  to the 
respective  Reporting  officer  on the same  day through  phone.  
9 Leave  Application  Form  has to be filled  & submitted  along  with  the medical  
certificate  on resuming  duty.  
10 Sick Leave for more than two days should be supported by medical certificate 
from a  registered  medical  practitioner.  If an employee  is absent  for a period  
exceeding  a week  because  of sickness,  he / she should  produce  a fitness  certificate  
from  the attending  physician/surgeon.  
  