 
BASIC CHEMICALS, COSMETICS & DYES EXPORT PROMOTION COUNCIL                 
 
Page 50 /64 (HR Manual)                                                                                POWERED BY UNIVERSAL HR  
13.2 Director Travel Rules:  
i. Prior approval  – All Travel shall be undertaken after written prior approval 
from the DG. For Air travel of any employee, prior approval of DG is must.  
ii. Travel bookings – All the travel related transactions (bookings, cancellations 
etc.) should be routed through the Travel/Administration Department. All 
travel requisitions have to be made in the prescribed format. All such 
information should be given to the Travel/Administration Department before 
3 working days (minimum) from the date of travel & 10 working days in case 
of international travel so the necessary arrangements can be made as regards 
to travel.  
iii. The tickets are normally purchased by CHEMEXCIL  through the appointed 
Travel Agent. However, if an employee purchases the Tickets, to claim 
reimbursement, the used ticket stub/boarding pass or a photocopy of the ticket 
needs to be attached with the Expense Statement Form.  Tickets booked 
personally must be cheaper than the rate provided by the Council  appointed 
travel agent.  
iv. Cancellation of tickets – In case of last-minute  cancellation of  plans by an 
employee, it is the responsibility of the employee to cancel the tickets and 
submit the refund to Accounts & Finance at the earliest. Employee will bear the 
cost of cancellation in case of cancellation due to his / her own reasons.  
v. Travel advance** – Employees may avail travel advance for the proposed 
travel from accounts & finance department, for which travel requisition form 
should be submitted before, 3 working days (minimum) from the date of travel 
& 10 working days in case of international trave l. 
i. Any unused air / train / bus tickets are to be surrendered to the 
CHEMEXCIL  immediately  on return,  for obtaining  a refund.  
ii. Any deviation from the Council  norms has to be highlighted in the 
Travel  Requisition  Form.  
iii. Reimbursement  of travel  expenses  – On return  from  travel,  the expenses  
incurred  should  be filled  in the Travel  Expense  statement  and submitted  
within  a week  of arrival  or before  the commencement  of the next  visit  
whichever  earlier.  
iv. Till the submission of Travel expense form along with the supporting 
documents the  Accounts  & Finance  Department  will hold  the cost  of the 
tickets,  as an “advance”  against  the employee’s  name.  
 
vi. Travel  advance  amount  
 
Sr. 
No. Travel  days  M1 to M3  M4  to M6  Other 
Grades  
1 Travel  for a day.  5000  5000  3000  
2 Travel  for more  than  a day      but up to 3 
days  only.   100 00 7000  6000  
3 Travel for 4 days but up to a   week  15000  10000  8000  
i. Employees  can use their  credit  cards  for settling  certain  bills  and can 
claim  the permitted  reimbursements  by submitting the  travel  expense  forms.  
ii. For advances  above  the limit  mentioned  the employee  would  have  to state  the 
reason  and get it approved  from the  Director   General for cash.  
 