 
BASIC CHEMICALS, COSMETICS & DYES EXPORT PROMOTION COUNCIL                 
 
Page 27 /64 (HR Manual)                                                                                POWERED BY UNIVERSAL HR  
 
c. PL accumulation  and Encashment : 
 
PL can be carried forward and accumulated to a maximum of 120  days  (120  days is inclusive  
of the entitlement  of 30 days  of the new  calendar  year)  
 
In the entire  service  of an employee,  an employee  can en-cash  a maximum  of  120   days  of Earned  
Leave  at the time  of retirement  and anything  above   120 days  they  have  to enjoy.  
 
Permanent employees can en -cash up -to a maximum of 15 days of Earned Leave in a calendar  
year,  based on Basic Salary . 
 
Leave encashment will be calculated as follows = (Basic Salary  / 30 * no. of days). Tax  deduction 
on encashment will be as per the applicable provisions of the tax laws. Leave  en-cashed will be 
payable with monthly salary based on the Basic Salary as on date of  encashment.  
 
Request for encashment of leave will be considered once in a calendar year only and to a 
maximum of  30 days  only . 
 
In case of retirement / termination/ resignation,  the employees would be paid the balance  of 
Earned Leave to his credit, subject of maximum  of 120   days, less the number of days  already  
en-cashed  by the employee.  
 
d. Procedure:  
 
En-cashed  leave  is treated  as separate  amount  and will not form  a part  of salary  or any 
other  allowance.  It will be paid  separately  as ‘Leave  encashment” and  is taxable.  
 
8.4 Casual  Leave  (CL):  
 
a. Eligibility :  
 
i. All employees are eligible to take 10 days CL in a Calendar Year.  
ii. Maximum 2 days CL can be taken at a time at a stretch.  
iii. Employee cannot combine CL and PL, by any means  
iv. Casual Leave will be credited in the employees leave account as on the 1st January of 
every  calendar  year  in advance.  
v. Employees  joining  in the course  of the year  will be eligible  for pro-rata  leave  on their  
date  of joining  for the period  up to 31st December  in the said  calendar  year.  
vi. In case any employee separates from the services of the Council  during the year, 
recovery  on account  of excess  casual  leave availed  by the employee  during  the year  
would  be made.  
b. Entitlement:  
i. If CL extends  beyond  2 days,  then  the employees will have to apply for PL.  
ii. Intervening  weekly  off days  / National  / Festival  / Declared  holidays  will be counted  as a part  of 
CL. However, preceding or succeeding weekly off days/holidays will not be counted as  leave . 
iii. Balanced  CL remaining  unutilized  as on 31st December  will lapse.  
iv. Half day CL can be taken as required. In order to avail Half day CL minimum 4 hours of  
working is required, if the duration of work in office is less than 4 hours the leave will be  