 
BASIC CHEMICALS, COSMETICS & DYES EXPORT PROMOTION COUNCIL                 
 
Page 59 /64 (HR Manual)                                                                                POWERED BY UNIVERSAL HR  
 
EXIT INTERVIEW  POLICY  TOTAL PAGES : 1 
Date  of Policy  Document  Proposed:  10/02/2022  Effective  Date  of Policy : 08/01/2024  
Supersedes  Service Rules  Document  Dated:  10/06/1968  Approved By:   Director General , Vice -Chairman , 
Chairman  & CoA  
 
 
17.1  Objective :  It is an opportunity for the DG to conclude  the employee's tenure with the Council  on a 
positive note.  Valuable feedback concerning training and development, benefits  and compensation  
can be  obtained  during  the Exit  Interview.  By exploring  these  issues  through  exit interviews,  the 
Council  can learn  about  the issue  and take  corrective  action.  
17.2 Applicability : This  policy  is applicable  to all employees,  who  are leaving  the Council . 
17.3 Procedure : 
a. As soon  as an employee  tenders  his resignation,  the Reporting  Manager  must  inform  the 
Human  Resource  Department.  
b. The Human Resource Department will contact the Reporting Manager to arrange an exit  
interview.  
c. The exit interview  must  be an objective  process  with  a view  to understanding  the root  cause  
for the resignation.  
d. Feedback  from  the employee  is shared  with  the Functional  Head  & DG and considered  
for translating  the same  into  a process  improvement  opportunity.  
e. The interview  will be held  confidentially  with  a member  of the Human  Resource  
Department.  
f. Employees  leaving  the Council  need  to fill in an Exit  Interview  Form  and complete  an exit 
interview  with  the HR at least  48 hours  before  the last working  day.  
g. The reporting superior to communicate acceptance of the resignation in writing to the  
concerned  employee,  clearly  indicating  the date  on which  the employee  is to be relieved  at 
the end  of working  hours.  
h. A copy  of the Resignation  Acceptance  letter  is to be forwarded  to the HR Manager  and the 
HOD  (if reporting  superior  other  than  HOD)  
i. The employee is required to handover all Council  property (viz. data cards, laptops,  
mobile phone  corporate  credit  cards,  training  material  etc) to the HR before  his/her  last 
working  day.  
j. On receipt  of all Council  property  the Manager  is required  to complete  a No dues  
Certificate  and forward  the same  to Human  Resources  Department on/before  the last 
working  day.  
k. Manager shall also need to arrange for deactivation of email / other system access on  
receipt  of resignation  / within  one week  of last working  day of the employee.  
  17. EXIT  INTERVIEW  POLICY  