 
BASIC CHEMICALS, COSMETICS & DYES EXPORT PROMOTION COUNCIL                 
 
Page 14 /64 (HR Manual)                                                                                POWERED BY UNIVERSAL HR  
e. Professional  Engagement  & Public  Advocacy : 
 
Council  employees  are encouraged  to associate  themselves  with  activities  of professional  
bodies/forums  to enrich  their  knowledge  and also  help  in building  Council ’s image.  
However,  such  engagement  should  not result  in dereliction  of duty or in discrediting  the 
Council ’s image/reputation  or abuse  of Council ’s resources.   
 
f. Intellectual  Property  Rights  
 
During the course of the employment with the Council  any knowledge, inventions,  
discoveries  and processes  gathered  by the staff  and s to be only  shared  with  the Council  
and it will become  the Council ’s property  
 
g. Use  of Council  Assets  & Brand  Logo  
 
CHEMEXCIL  employees shall not  exploit the Council ’s resources for  one’s own personal 
gain/pecuniary advantage. In discharge of  official duties, one  shall strive for effective and 
judicious use of  resources entrusted to  them. Resources include both tangible assets like 
equipment and facilities etc. or intangible assets like designs, information, software, or 
network with suppliers/members etc.  
 
CHEMEXCIL  employees are entrusted with the duty of using the brand logo without  
modifying  the same.  All the employees  shall  abide  by the guidelines  for Brand  
applications/usages  including  visiting  cards.  Deviations  from  the specific  logo  templates  
will not be  permitted.  
h. Use  of Information  Technology  
 
CHEMEXCIL  employees shall judiciously use the Information Technology facilities  
provided to them. They shall conform to the policy on Information Technology. The  
increasing  usage  of E-mails  forms  a major  portion  of the network  usage.  In order  to make  
the best  utilization  of the resources  and to prevent  undesirable fallouts resulting from  the 
use of E-mails.  Users  should  comply  with  the Corporate  E-mail  usage  Guidelines.  
 
i. Working  Environment  & Dress  Code  Policy  
 
CHEMEXCIL  employees shall not engage in any activity that is likely to  result in  disturbing 
peace & harmony in the workplace or engage in activities that are likely to  create  tension,  
bitterness,  violence or confusion  in the minds  of colleagues.  
 
Superiors  shall  endeavor  to create  a climate  in ensuring  the above.  Also  all CHEMEXCIL  
employees are expected to follow the dress code policy in order to project a professional  
image through attire personal  grooming & hygiene and bearing, in turn creating a 
pleasant work environment and to  enforce a  strong  sense  of integrity . 
 
Formal dress code during the working hours to be strictly followed, except on holiday  
working. Male employees to wear formal shirt, trouser, suit/blazer & shoes.  Female  
employees  to wear saree,  salwar kameez, Punjabi  suit,  blazer, western formals.   
  