 
BASIC CHEMICALS, COSMETICS & DYES EXPORT PROMOTION COUNCIL                 
 
Page 6 /64 (HR Manual)                                                                                POWERED BY UNIVERSAL HR  
 
4. Organize Workshops/Seminars on various trade and policy related issues  
5. Provide consultancy and guidance services for chemical exporters  
6. Assists its members in locating and pinpointing the source of their requirements. It also helps to 
affect  a smooth trade deal between buyers and sellers to offer a total service package, completely 
free.  
7. Acts as a forum for representation of the trade related issues & as a liaison between the exporting 
community and the policy planners  
8. Deliver duties by the virtue of being a nodal agency appointed by the Ministry of Commerce & 
Industry for compliance of REACH legislation of the European Union.  
9. Participate in the Grievance Committee Meetings organized by the DGFT from time to time and 
take up issues of the member -exporters connected with Customs, Central Excise, Port 
Authorities, etc. and try to resolve the same  
10. Participate in the Review Meetings as well as Task Force Meetings being organized by the 
Ministry of Commerce & Industry from time to time to chalk out strategies for promotion of 
exports of the items coming under the purview of the Council  with presentations covering 
suggestions/views being received from its members.  
11. Prepare and submit to the Ministry of Commerce & Industry Annual Action Plan for promotion 
of exports of the items coming under its purview, covering Budget Proposals for participation in 
various international exhibitions/Buyer Seller Meets/being held abro ad as well as in India for 
the benefit of its member -exporters.  
12. Issue Recommendation letters addressed to various overseas Consulates/Embassies in India for 
issue of Visas for the member -exporters for attending Exhibitions/delegations as well as 
export/business promotion tours abroad.  
13. Issue Non -preferential Certificates of Origin to its member -exporters for export of their items to 
various countries abroad on the condition that the said items are covered under our purview 
and are manufactured  in India as authorized by the  Ministry of Commerce & Industry  
14. Organize Export Award Function to felicitate outstanding exporters on their excellent  export 
performance  
15. Become a ‘one contact point’ for sourcing information on any of the above products  from India.   
 
Confidential  Information  
By accepting employment with the CHEMEXCIL , all employees have accepted the condition not to 
disclose confidential or trade information to third parties. Even if an employee should decide to  leave 
the Council , his/her obligation regarding confidentiality of Council  information will be  binding  
subsequent  to termination  of employment.  This  is reinforced  through  the general  employment  terms  
& conditions,  which  governs  all Council  staff.  
 
Confidential information may be information in any form: e.g., written, electronic, oral, overheard or 
observed. Confidential Information includes (among other things) internal information, trade related 
and financial information, and plans concerning the Council , and private information about our 
members, suppliers and employees. Access to all information is granted on a “need to know basis”. A 
“need to know” is defined as information that is required in order to do the job.  
  