 
BASIC CHEMICALS, COSMETICS & DYES EXPORT PROMOTION COUNCIL                 
 
Page 62 /64 (HR Manual)                                                                                POWERED BY UNIVERSAL HR  
 
19.1 Policy brief & purpose:  
a. This policy includes the measures the Council  is actively taking to mitigate the spread of 
coronavirus. You are kindly requested to follow all these rules diligently, to sustain a healthy 
and safe workplace in this unique environment. It’s important that we all respond 
responsibly and transparently t o these health precautions. The Council  assures all 
employees that it will always treat the private health and personal data with high 
confidentiality and sensitivity.  
b. This coronavirus (COVID -19) and Work from Home policy is susceptible to changes with the 
introduction of additional governmental guidelines. If so, the policy will be updated 
accordingly as soon as possible.   
19.2 Scope:  
This coronavirus policy applies to all of employees including contractual staff who physically 
work in our office(s). We strongly recommend to the staff working at Regional offices to read 
through this action plan as well, to ensure we collectively and uni formly respond to this challenge.  
19.3 Policy elements : 
Here, the required actions are explained for employees to protect themselves and their 
colleagues  from a potential coronavirus infection.  
a. Sick leave arrangements:  
i. If you have cold symptoms, such as cough/sneezing/fever, or feel poorly, request sick 
leave or work from home . 
ii. If you have a positive COVID -19 diagnosis, you can return to the office only after you’ve 
fully recovered with a 14  day compulsory quarantine period with a doctor’s certificate 
confirming your recovery.  
b. Work from home requests:  
i. If you are having symptoms  of Covid -19, please isolate.  Also if you a re able to work, 
you can request to work from home.    
ii. If you’ve been in close contact with someone infected by COVID -19, with high cha nces 
of being infected yourself, please get tested and request  work from home. You will also 
be asked not to come into physical contact with any colleagues during this time.  
iii. If you are a parent and you have to stay at home with your children, request work from 
home with an approval from your departmental head to decide  and set performance 
expectations.  
iv. If you need to provide care to a family member infected by COVID -19, request work 
from home. You will only be permitted to return to the office 14 calendar days after 
your family member has fully recovered, provided that you are asymptomatic or you 
have a doctor’s certificate confirming you don’t have the virus. You will also be asked 
not to come into physical contact with any colleagues during this time.  
v. All employees who have been allowed Work from home will maintain a “work log 
book”. This will have to be submitted to the supervisor ever y evening.   19. PANDEMIC & WORK FROM HOME POLICY  