 
BASIC CHEMICALS, COSMETICS & DYES EXPORT PROMOTION COUNCIL                 
 
Page 20 /64 (HR Manual)                                                                                POWERED BY UNIVERSAL HR  
Based on the availability and in consultation with the HOD, schedule of the interview will be  
communicated to the short -listed  candidates, either by phone/email etc. clearly  mentioning  
the name of the  contact  person, date, time and venue.  
 
On completion of preliminary test (if required) and preliminary screening, if it is felt that  
potentiality of the candidature is in doubt the candidate may be dropped from the process 
and duly  informed  to the candidate.  
 
The interview  panel  would  typically  involve  two  levels  above  the position  e.g. the Directors  
and above, HR Manager and Director General . It may involve ED / Director General / 
Chairman  for senior level  recruitment  and specialists  from  outside  for certain  positions.  
 
Council  will not reimburse the  travel  expenses  to any candidates  coming  for interview.  
Unless  approved  by the Director   General as a special  case.  
 
The final interview can be in two or three parts with panelists available in a rough order of  
seniority  meeting the  candidates  successively.  
 
Psychometric tests may  be conducted for any senior or key and critical positions being  
considered  in the Council  depending on the situation.  
 
HR Head or his nominee would be present in all interviews to ensure full communication  
among panelists and to aid the panelists in administrative formalities such as recording  
interviewer’s  comments and decisions.  
 
Any candidate found to be canvassing for his / her candidature can be disqualified. No  
recommendations by any employees should be entertained in order to have a fair selection  
process.  Candidates  should be  selected  purely  on the basis  of merit alone.  
 
5.5 Responsibilities:  
Human  Resources  Department  shall  be responsible  for the following:  
i. Communicating  to applicants  the requirements  of this Policy  and associated  procedure;  
ii. Confidentially  storing  any documentation  associated  with  this Policy.  
iii. Conduct  background  verifications  of all certificates  / documents,  previous  employer  check,  
address  proof details,  police and criminal court background checks of all the candidates after  
their joining,  through  a reputed  employee  background screening  company.  
 
5.6 HOD/Managers:  
 
They  are responsible  for ensuring  that  no applicant  commences  employment  until  his or her 
appointment  has been  confirmed.  
 
 
  