 
BASIC CHEMICALS, COSMETICS & DYES EXPORT PROMOTION COUNCIL                 
 
Page 3 /64 (HR Manual)                                                                                POWERED BY UNIVERSAL HR  
PREFACE  
 
We have put together this Human Resources Manual which provides detailed information 
on a  wide range of topics related to your employment with the Council . The provisions of 
this manual  will apply to all employees on our rolls and it will help you understand the 
processes and policies that  we will follow, give an overview of the facilities and benefits that 
are available to all employees and also provide  a platform  for continuous  interaction  between  
Management  and staff.  
As a staff member of CHEMEXCIL , your role in realization of the Council ’s corporate vision 
will be very significant and valuable. It is expected that you will bring into your work, the 
highest  standards of performance along with a commitment to values, work ethics, 
professionalism, and  skill  enhancement.  
Applicability:  
This  HR policy  is applicable  and binding  to all employees  of CHEMEXCIL  effective  from  8th 
January, 2024  and       supersedes all other service rules  applicable to the employees of the 
Council . This HR policy has been  proposed  by the Director General and approved  by the 
Chairman . 
Modification,  Addition  or Deletion  & Revision  of Clauses:  
From time -to-time  necessary modifications can be made to the Policies by adding, deleting 
or changing  specific clauses  as the  need  arises . 
Any such request for change will be put up to the Director General by the Human Resources  
department. The Director General in turn  will place  before  the Chairman /Vice - Chairman  for 
approval.  On receiving  the                                          approval, Director General  will inform the Human Resources 
Department to make the necessary  amendments / modification and the amendments  will be 
communicated to all the employees through a  Notice  / Circular  / Email.  The same  will be 
binding  on all employees  of CHEMEXCIL . 
We welcome you to the CHEMEXCIL  FAMILY and wish you a long and exciting career 
with us.  
 
 
 
  