 
BASIC CHEMICALS, COSMETICS & DYES EXPORT PROMOTION COUNCIL                 
 
Page 40 /64 (HR Manual)                                                                                POWERED BY UNIVERSAL HR  
c. Identification  of Learning  Needs  
The process  of training  starts  with  the identification  of training  needs.  The training  needs  
identification  process  will be done  at two levels.  
 
i. Behavioral  Training  Needs  
ii. Functional/Technical  Training  Needs  
d. Behavioral  Training  Needs  
These  are behavioral  training  needs  of each  individual  employee.  These  will be generally  
identified  through Performance Appraisal Process. They can also be identified through inputs 
given by the  Functional  Heads.  
The top 2- 3 behavioral  needs  identified  across  different  levels  and functions  will be given  
priority  keeping  the budgets and  relevance  in mind.  
Personal  Effectiveness  and  behavioral  aspects:  These  programs  are developed  to bring  in a 
change  in behavior,  attitude  and personality  of the team  members for  increased  productivity  
and personality  growth.  
 
e. Functional/  Technical  Training   Needs :  
 
These training needs will be identified in line with the operations undertaken by the various  
departments and will be identified after discussions with the respective HOD or through the  
Performance  Appraisal  Process.  The frequency  of the identification  survey  will be once  a year  
but can be conducted  if there  are some  changes  generated  by the changing  business  needs.  
 
f. Functional  Training  Programs  
 
These  programs  will be designed  to address  all employees  of the Council , to expose  them  to an 
in- depth as well as overview of the respective departments’ operations and the skill sets 
required to  discharge their  responsibilities  effectively.  
 
Also,  in addition  to these,  Team  members  shall  be nominated  to seminars  and lectures  as and 
when  required  for updating  of various  types  of skills.  
 
g. Training  Nomination  Procedure:  
i. Employees  can self-nominate  with  the approval  of their  respective  HODs  
ii. HODs  / Directors  can nominate  the employees,  teams.  
 
The Head  of respective  department,  ED will have  the final  authority  on nominating  an individual  
/ groups.  The training  nominations  then  shall  be forwarded  to the HR team  who  in turn  shall  
verify  the same  and process  the nominations.  
 
h. Eligibility  conditions  for attending  the training  programs : 
A team  member  is eligible for  attending  a training  program  only  if – 
i. S/He  has not attended  a similar  program  in the previous  6 months  of his working  in the Council . 
ii. S/He  is not the only  person  who  has been  trained in  a sequence  of training  programs  held  by 
external  agency  continuously  in the previous  6 months.  
iii. S/He  is not facing  any disciplinary  action  related  either  to performance  or behavior.  