 
BASIC CHEMICALS, COSMETICS & DYES EXPORT PROMOTION COUNCIL                 
 
Page 44 /64 (HR Manual)                                                                                POWERED BY UNIVERSAL HR  
g. Administration  of Fund:  The Regional  Provident  Fund  Commissioners  Office.  
 
Procedure:  
 
i. All new  employees  will need  to fill a nomination  form  appointing  a nominee(s)  and return  it to the 
HR department.  
ii. Employees  who  join CHEMEXCIL , after  working  in another  Organization  will fill in the relevant  forms  
provided  by the HR department  to transfer  their  PF account  from  the previous  employers  to 
CHEMEXCIL . 
Grounds  for withdrawal:  The RPF  may  permit  a member  to withdraw  PF accumulation  as per 
prevailing  rules,  and the amount  withstanding to  members  credit in  the fund.  
Exceptions:  Any  exceptions  to this policy  as per an individual  employee’s  term  of contract  and 
employment  will be reviewed  and approved  by the HR Department.  
 
h. Group Mediclaim Policy   
Objective : The Council  is providing  Mediclaim  insurance  coverage  to all employees  to assist  them  in 
their   hospitalization  needs. Premium  for the  same is borne  by the Council . 
 
Eligibility : CHEMEXCIL  has taken a comprehensive Group Mediclaim Policy for the employees and 
is applicable to all regular employees. The maximum reimbursable limits for various grades are as  
follows:  
 
Grade  M1, M2  Rs. 10 lacs  
Grade M 3, M4 , M5  Rs. 8 lacs  
Grade  M6, M7, M8  Rs.  6 lacs  
All other Grades  Rs. 4 lacs  
 
Policy  & Procedures  
 
This  policy  shall  be governed  by the following  guidelines:  
 
i. Family  includes  employee,  spouse  and two dependent  children  upto  the age of 25 years.  
ii. No medical  check -up is required  for employee  and their  dependents  in all age groups  while  
joining  the scheme  
iii. All benefits  under  this scheme  will be subject  to terms  & conditions  laid down  by the Insurance     
company  from  time  to time.  
 
i. Children  Education  Allowance  
 
Children Education Allowance and Reimbursement of Tuition Fees has been merged and it will  
henceforth be reimbursement upto  a maximum  of Rs 27,000/ - per child,  per annum,  subject  to 
maximum  of 2 children  till the age of  18 yrs and/or  upto  12th standard  whichever  is earlier.  
 
The reimbursement of Children Education Allowance for Special  children of the employee shall be  
Rs.4500/ - per month (fixed) on submission of necessary documents.   
 
The upper age limit for Special  children is 22 years. In the case of other children,  the age limit will be 
20 years or till the time of passing 12th class whichever is earlier. There shall be no minimum age.  
 
 