 
BASIC CHEMICALS, COSMETICS & DYES EXPORT PROMOTION COUNCIL                 
 
Page 13 /64 (HR Manual)                                                                                POWERED BY UNIVERSAL HR  
 
Feedback on performance will be provided as far as possible in private. They shall treat  
them  with  equity  & fairness.  
 
CHEMEXCIL  employees  shall  not use abusive  or offensive  language,  tone  or gesture  with  
their  fellow  employees  or members.  Superiors  shall  not insult/demean  their  
subordinates.  
 
CHEMEXCIL  employees  shall  commit  to create  an environment  which  is free  of any type               of 
sexual  harassment  & abide  by the Policy  for protection  of Women’s  Rights  at the work  
place. Each employee shall strive to protect women employees from any act of sexual  
harassment  and take appropriate  action  whenever  required.  
 
CHEMEXCIL employees will desist from writing / instigating supporting others direct ly 
or indirectly in what so ever manner in writing  or otherwise  and directing letters to 
ministry, COA or any other person or party failing which strict disciplinary action will be 
initiated against such employees including termination of services.   
 
c. Sharing  of Official  Information  
 
CHEMEXCIL  employees  shall  not divulge  or communicate  in any manner  
sensitive/confidential information to third parties, except when authorized to do so for  
business reasons. Council ’s Policy Guideline on Designated Spokes persons authorized for  
communicating  to the media  in this regard,  shall  be strictly  followed.  
 
CHEMEXCIL  employees shall not speak ill about the Council  to any external agency  which 
would tarnish the image of the Council . Similarly, CHEMEXCIL  employee or  employees/  
members  shall  desist  from  indulging  in rumor  mongering/loose  talks,  about  the Council  
that  is detrimental  to the Council ’s interest.  
 
CHEMEXCIL emp loyees will desist from writing / instigatin g supporting other directly or 
indirectly in whatsoever manner in writing or otherwise and directing letters to ministry, 
COA or any other person or party , failing which strict disciplinary action will be initiated 
against such employees including termination of services.   
d. Maintaining  Confidentiality  
 
In addition to the above mentioned, the CHEMEXCIL  employees shall maintain the  
integrity  of internal  communications.  Care shall  be taken  to mitigate various  risks 
emanating out of communication such as misrepresentation of facts/ events, leakage of  
price  sensitive  information,  unfavorable  reports  on developments  in the Council , 
inconsistent  communication  at the times of crisis.  
CHEMEXCIL  employees may, in the course of their employment and engagement,  become  
aware  of and possess  information  of the Council  or third  parties  disclosed  to the Council  
that is not generally known. This may include information which if disclosed  could  
jeopardize  the interests of  the Council . 
 
Hence as per the Confidentiality policy, all the employees have been entrusted with the  
duty  to keep  such  information  strictly  confidential  and use it only  for proper  purposes  in 
accordance with the law. This would apply during the course of employment as well as  
post  separation.  
  