 
BASIC CHEMICALS, COSMETICS & DYES EXPORT PROMOTION COUNCIL                 
 
Page 49 /64 (HR Manual)                                                                                POWERED BY UNIVERSAL HR  
 
TRAVEL POLICY  TOTAL PAGES  : 3 
Date  of Policy  Document  Proposed:  10/02/2022  Effective  Date  of Policy : 08/01/2024  
Supersedes  Service Rules  Document  Dated:  10/06/1968  Approved By:   Director General , Vice -Chairman , 
Chairman  & CoA  
 
 
13.1 Objective : The policy  endeavors  to provide  its employees  a comfortable  travel  while  on 
Council ’s business.  
 
a. Overseas  Travel : All overseas  travel  will be governed  by the MDA  scheme  revised  
guidelines  effective  from  1st April  2006.  Overseas  travel  policy  in force  at the time  of 
travel  as per the Government  of India  policy.  
Note:  Any  deviations  as per the approval  of Director General . Domestic  Travel  
i. To lay down  guidelines  for all employees  in CHEMEXCIL  so as to claim  expenses  
incurred  on local  travel  undertaken  on account  of official  outdoor  duties.  
ii. This  policy  envisages  that  employees  required  to incur  such  expenses  will apply  
reasonable   discretion,  keeping the guidelines  of this policy in  mind all  the times.  
 
b. Applicability:  This  domestic  travel  policy  shall  be applicable  to all the employees  
including  trainees,  required  to undertake  business  travel  in India.  
c. Classification  of cities:  For the purpose of expenses to be reimbursed for domestic 
business travel, following  classification  of cities will  be applicable.  
 
Class  Cities  
A Mumbai,  Delhi  & NCR,  Kolkata,  Bangalore,  Chennai  and Hyderabad, 
Ahmedabad.  
B All States  and UTs*  Capital  other  than  those in  Class  “A”, Pune,  Surat.  
C Other  Cities  / Towns  not covered  under  “A” & “B” categories  
 
❖ UTS  are Andaman&  Nicobar  Islands,  Chandigarh,  Dadra  & Nagar  Haveli,  
Daman  & Diu,  Lakshadweep,  and Pondicherry  
❖ All travel has to be undertaken only after department/functional heads 
approval or as the  case may be. A minimum of 3 working days should be 
provided for completion of all relevant  approval  processes.  
 
PS: Any  deviations  in the above  shall  be subject  to the approval  of Director General  
  13. TRAVEL  POLICY  