 
BASIC CHEMICALS, COSMETICS & DYES EXPORT PROMOTION COUNCIL                 
 
Page 15 /64 (HR Manual)                                                                                POWERED BY UNIVERSAL HR  
j. Environment,  Health  & Safety  (EHS)  
CHEMEXCIL  employees  shall  endeavor  to create  a safe  working  environment  by 
keeping  their  office  surroundings  clean  and hygienic.  
All employees should ensure not to keep / store any inflammable or fire hazardous  
materials in the office premises and strive to keep the exits passage clutter free and  
accessible in  case  of emergency . 
The administration should ensure that all fire extinguishers in the office premises are  
regularly  checked for  use in case of emergency . 
In case of any safety lapses employees should immediately raise the issue. Regular fire 
drills  need to be administrated on a regular basis.  
k. Corporate HR policy  
 
People are the most valuable resources that contribute towards realizing the dynamic  
vision  of the Council . Hence  in consonance  with  the HR functions,  CHEMEXCIL  shall  be 
relentlessly  committing  to: 
i. Acquiring,  developing  and retaining  a pool  of high -caliber  talent  
ii. Enabling  and empowering  the employees  to be creative  and innovative  
iii. Establishing systems and practices for maintaining transparency, fairness 
and equality  & integrity.  
iv. Creating a culture of continuous learning, competitiveness and excellence 
through  change  management,  
v. Respecting  ethics,  values  and good  governance  
 
l. Risk  Management  Framework  Including  Risk  Management  Policy  
 
The employees  have  to comply  with  all the laws  applicable  to the CHEMEXCIL , adhere  to the 
Risk  Management  framework  and abide  by the Internal  Audit  Guidelines.  
 
m. Prohibited  Items  
Use, sale, purchase or possession of narcotic drugs, arms/weapons by CHEMEXCIL  
employees at work place or when on duty, is strictly prohibited. Consumption of alcohol 
l during  office  hours  and official  meetings  is strictly  prohibited ; barring extra -ordinary 
situations approved by the Director General.  
n. And  Finally  
 
All CHEMEXCIL  employees  besides  being  good  employees  shall  endeavor  to contribute  
proactively  towards  the overall  progress  of the Council . 
They should ensure that no negative publicity, or loose talks and rumors  are spread  
during  the time  of any crisis or otherwise  to ensure  the image  of the Council  and its 
members is protected.  
iv. Disciplinary  Action  
In the event of an employee violating the code of conduct, appropriate disciplinary action 
shall be  taken against such an employee. The disciplinary action may include issuing 
internal memo,  warnings  / awarding  penalties  or dismissal  from  service.  There  are 
stages  to the warning  procedure. CHEMEXCIL  reserves the right to initiate the warning 