 
BASIC CHEMICALS, COSMETICS & DYES EXPORT PROMOTION COUNCIL                 
 
Page 9 /64 (HR Manual)                                                                                POWERED BY UNIVERSAL HR  
ATTENDANCE  & WORKING  POLICY  TOTAL PAGES  – 3 
Date  of Policy  Document  Proposed:  10/02/2022  Effective  Date  of Policy : 08/01/2024  
Supersedes  Service Rules  Document  Dated:  10/06/1968  Approved By:   Director General, Vice -Chairman, 
Chairman & CoA  
 
3.1 Objective  & Guidelines:                                                                                                                    
              
CHEMEXCIL  expects  employees  to be ready  to work  at the beginning  of assigned  daily  work  hours,  
and to complete  their  task  by the end of assigned  work  hours.  All employees of all grades are 
required to register their attendance daily at the scheduled  reporting time . Salary will  not be paid  
for the day if  attendance  has not been  registered in person.   
Employee’s regular attendance is essential for the efficient flow of work and is considered as a  
measure  of his desire  to perform  the job. CHEMEXCIL  cannot  tolerate  repeated  absenteeism  or late 
coming,  which  results  in low productivity and indiscipline .  
Employees  must  report  to duty  on a fixed  / notified  time  and it is the responsibility  of all employees  to 
meet the  standards of  attendance.   
Director  General will sign / approve the monthly attendance of staff and will send the report to    
Payroll  on 25th of every  month.  
Regular office timings at all locations:  
 
Option 1: 09.30 a.m. to 6. 00 p.m . (with half  an hour lunch break).  
 
3.2 Applicability:   To all employees  of CHEMEXCIL                                                                                                                                                            
 
3.3 Late  Coming  and  Early  Going : 
 
Owing  to certain  personal  exigencies,  on specific  occasions/days,  employees  may  be permitted  to 
report late  to work  or leave  early  with permission of the HoD and intimation to the HR Department  
 
3.4 Special  Cases : 
If an employee  works  late till 01:00  am or beyond,  next  day they  are allowed  to come  late to the office  
by 13:00  hrs. Half  day’s  salary  will not be deducted  for such  instance.  The employees  exceeding  the 
specified time limit will have to apply for a half - day leave s for every  such instance.  The employee  
has to submit  leave  application . 
 
3.5 General  Cases :  
Whenever there is a need of leave of absence in case of emergency situations or for ill health, the  
employee must inform their superior over phone. In addition, the employee must submit the leave  
application to their immediate reporting manager as soon as he/she returns to duty.  All Casual 
Leave & Privilege  Leave  should  be sanctioned in  advance, as  per Council ’s leave  procedure , except 
those casual leaves in cases of emergency cases and about which employees have informed the 
HoD  & HR Department over phone, subject to post approval on return on duty at the sole 
discretion of the HoD.  
 
3. ATTENDANCE  POLICY  & WORKING  HOURS  POLICY  