 
BASIC CHEMICALS, COSMETICS & DYES EXPORT PROMOTION COUNCIL                 
 
Page 19 /64 (HR Manual)                                                                                POWERED BY UNIVERSAL HR  
 
RECRUITMENT POLICY  TOTAL PAGES – 4 
Date  of Policy  Document  Proposed:  10/02/2022  Effective  Date  of Policy : 08/01/2024  
Supersedes  Service Rules  Document  Dated:  
10/06/1968  Approved By:   Director General , Vice -
Chairman, Chairman & CoA  
 
5.1 Objective:  
 
This  policy  aims  to promote  and maintain  high standards of  
professional  recruitment practice  by encouraging recruiters to adhere 
to best practices.  
 
a. To attract  and retain  highly  qualified,  talented  workforce  available  on merit.  
b. To disseminate  information  about  employment  opportunities  with  the Council  
through  numerous  channels,  to ensure  necessary attraction.  
 
5.2 Applicability:  All employees  at all levels.  
 
5.3 Policy:  
 
Regardless  of the sources,  and the position  to be filled -in, all candidates  whom  the Council   is 
considering  for interview  should  fill in the Employment  Application  Form.  
 
If any of the details mentioned in the Employment Application Form turns out to be false or  
inaccurate  or there  is evidence  that  any relevant  information  has been  deliberately  
suppressed,  the employment  could  be terminated  without  any notice.  
 
5.4 Procedure:  
 
The recruitment and selection policy must be in line with the Council ’s Manpower Planning . 
Departmental Head / Regional Head  will systematically review their business plans, team 
structure,  skills and manpower flowing out of Business Plan to arrive at the manpower 
required for the  said  financial  year.  
On the basis  of assessment,  Departmental Head/ Regional Head will prepare  their  ‘Manpower  
Plan’  and s/he will fill Manpower Requisition Form. Creation of new position or filling up of 
old position  needs  to be approved  by the Director General , as there  is a financial  liability  on the 
part  of the      Council . 
Approved Manpower Requisition Form will be submitted to HR department for approval of  
Management  along with  a Job Description.  
The HR Department may look at various sources of recruitment for filling in its positions.  
Resume  received  from  different  sources  will be screened,  based  on the ‘Job Description’,  by HR. 
Resume meeting the job criteria shall be forwarded to the concerned Head of Department 
for their  endorsement.  
5. RECRUITMENT  POLICY  
 