 
BASIC CHEMICALS, COSMETICS & DYES EXPORT PROMOTION COUNCIL                 
 
Page 5 /64 (HR Manual)                                                                                POWERED BY UNIVERSAL HR  
 
 
The Basic Chemicals, Cosmetics & Dyes Export Promotional Council  (known as CHEMEXCIL ) is a Section 25 
Company under the Companies Act 1956 (Now under Section 8 of Companies Act 2013) and registered as 
a no profit organization setup in accordance with the Foreign Trade Policy  under the Foreign Trade 
(Development and Regulation) Act, 1992 notified  by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Department 
of Commerce, Government of India, represent ing the exporting  community of the Indian Chemicals 
Industr y including Dyes, Dye Intermediates, Cosmetics, Toiletries, Essential Oils, Caster oil and Specialty  
Chemicals.  
 
The export promotion strategies evolved since 1963 , the year when CHEMEXCIL  was inc orporated , have 
fetched rich dividends, which are exhibited in the form of high growth rates. These export achievements 
represent the dedicated efforts of around 4000 + CHEMEXCIL  members who are in the process of creating 
a niche for themselves in the highly competitive global markets.  
 
The numerous local associations already in existence did not focus on issues of the trade at an international 
level. It is hence that the CHEMEXCIL  was inc orporated  in early 1963 . The CHEMEXCIL  unites 
manufacturers, and exporters of chemical  products all over India for a common interest. This shall shape 
and influence the industry's future and bring integration and opulence amongst its members, while 
protecting the interest of the customers at the same time.  
 
India is being recognized as a good sourcing hub for chemical  products. The entrepreneurial skill coupled 
with the technical expertise of Indian entrepreneurs and supports from CHEMEXCIL  enable the Indian 
Chemical  industry to en -cash opportunities available in the global trade.  
 
VISION,  MISSION,  OBJECTIVES:  
 
VISION:  
 
(To excel in Positioning Basic Chemicals, Cosmetics & Dyes exports from India as products of choice 
in the regional and global markets ) 
 
MISSION : 
 
To enable and assist the members of the basic chemicals, cosmetics & dyes exports promotion Council  in 
enhancing exports of chemical products to realize the full potential in global markets through concerted 
efforts and deliver duties by virtue of being a nodal government agency.  
 
OBJECTIVES : 
 
1. To be an interface with the Industry and the Government of India to formulate Export -oriented 
Policies and also to create a favorable environment to augment exports of the above items from 
India.  
2. Participate in international exhibitions being held abroad and invites overseas delegations to 
India to promote our exports & establish long term strategic alliances  
3. Sponsor trade delegation, study teams and sales teams to various markets abroad  
  
1. COUNCIL  PROFILE  