 
BASIC CHEMICALS, COSMETICS & DYES EXPORT PROMOTION COUNCIL                 
 
Page 23 /64 (HR Manual)                                                                                POWERED BY UNIVERSAL HR  
 
PROBATION POLICY  TOTAL PAGES  – 2 
Date  of  Policy  Document  Proposed:  10/02/2022  Effective  Date  of Policy : 08/01/2024  
Supersedes  Service Rules  Document  Dated:  
10/06/1968  Approved By:   Director General , Vice -
Chairman, Chairman & CoA  
 
7.1 Objective:  
 
To allow  the Council , to closely  evaluate  & monitor  the knowledge,  skills &  attitude  required  
for the job, of newly hired employees. This also includes evaluating the suitability and 
efficiency in the  context  of the  Council . 
 
7.2 Applicability : Applicable  to all the new  Joinees . 
 
7.3 Policy:  
 
All new entrants will be on probation for a period of six months from the date of joining. 
Those  who join between 1st to 14th will be confirmed effective 1st and those who join 
between 1 5th to last  day of the month will be confirmed effective 15th. On completion of 
probation period and after an  evaluation  of employee’s  performance,  the services  will be 
confirmed,  extended  or terminated.  
The same  appraisal  form  as in Annual  appraisal  will be used  for confirmation  appraisal  also.  
If the performance  of the employee  during  the probation  period  is not satisfactory,  
probation  period  can be extended for a period of three months. However the total period of 
probation, including the  period  of extended  probation  should  not exceed  nine  months.  At the 
end of the probation  extension  period,  if the performance  is still not satisfactory,  the services  
of the employee  will be terminated.  
 
7.4 Performance  during  the Probation  Period : 
 
Employees who are not performing as per expected levels of performance during the 
probation  period should have at least one discussion during the probation period with their 
respective  Functional Head. Feedback on performance level and development plan should 
be discussed with  the employee.  
 
7.5 Confirmation : 
 
On successful  completion  of Probation,  HR will ensure  appraisal  and confirmation  in time;  it 
cannot  be done without involvement of HODs and the employee. Confirmation will not be 
automatic. A  letter  of confirmation  will be given  to the confirmed  employee  by the HR 
department.  
 
7.6 Notice  Period  during  the Probation  Period  
 
In case  of separation,  all Probationers  would  be required  to serve  a notice  period  as per the 
terms  and conditions  mentioned in the  appointment  letter.  
  
7. PROBATION  POLICY  